you
this lecture is about the query light
holder probabilistic a retrieval model
in this lecture we continue the
discussion of probabilistic auricular
model in particular we're going to talk
about the query like at holder retrieval
function in the query like a hole
retrieval model our idea is the model
how likely are user who lights the
document will pose a particular query so
in this case you can imagine if a user
likes this particular document about the
presidential campaign news then one can
assume the user would use this document
as a basis to pose a query to try to
retrieve this document so again imagine
the user could use a process that works
as follows where we assume that the
query is generated by sampling words
from the document so for example a user
might pick a word like presidential from
this document and then use this as a
clear award and then the user would pick
another word like a campaign and that
would be the second declared war now
this of course is a something that we
have made about how a user would pose a
query whether user actually followed
this process may be a different question
but this assumption has allowed us to
formulate characterize this conditional
probability and this allows us to also
not rely on the big table that I showed
you earlier to use empirical data to
estimate in this probability and this is
why we can use this idea to them further
derive retrieve a function that we can
implement with the program memory so as
you see the something that we made here
is each query word is independently
sampled and also each word is basically
obtained from the document
so now let's see how this works exactly
well since we are computing the query
like hole then the probability here is
just the probability of this particular
query which is a sequence of world and
we make the assumption that each word is
generated independently so as a result
the probability of the query is just a
product of the probability of each query
war now how do we compute the
probability of each nuclear war well
based on the assumption that a word is
picked from the document that the user
has in mind then we know the probability
of each award is just the relative
frequency of the war in the document so
for example the probability of
presidential given the document would be
just the count of presidential in the
document divided by the total number of
words in the document or talking demands
so with this these assumptions we now
have actually a simple formula for
retrieval right we can use this to rank
our document so does this model work
let's take a look here are some example
documents that you have seen before
suppose now the queries present your
campaign and we see the formula here on
the top so how do we score this document
well it's very simple right we just
count how many times who have seen purse
pendulum in times of obscene campaign
etc and we see here 44 and we've seen
personally or twice so that's 2 over the
length of document before multiplied by
1 over length of the cuneiform for the
probability of campaign and similarly we
can get probabilities for the other two
documents now if you look at this these
numbers or these these formulas for
scoring all these documents it seems to
make sense because if we assume the
three and D for have about the same
length then looks like a women the rank
D for about
d 3 and which is above D 2 as we would
expect looks like it did capture the TF
heuristic and so this seems to work well
however if we try a different query like
this one presidential campaign update
then we might see a problem what problem
well think about the update now none of
these documents has mention update so
according to our assumption that a user
would pick a word from a document to
generate a query then the probability of
obtaining a word like update would be
what would be 0 right so that caused a
problem because it will cause all these
documents to have zero probability of
generating this query now while it's
fine to have zero probability for T 2
which is non relevant it's not ok to
have 0 for D 3 and d 4 because now we no
longer can distinguish them what's worse
we can't even distinguish them from D 2
right so that's obviously not desirable
now whenever we've had such result we
should think about what has caused this
problem so we have to examine what
assumptions have been made as we derive
this ranking function now if you examine
those assumptions carefully you would
realize what has caused this problem
right so take a moment to think about
what do you think is the reason why
update has zero probability and how do
we fix it right so if you think about
this for a moment you realize that
that's because we have made an
assumption that every query water must
be drawn from the document in the users
mind so in order to fix this we have to
assume that the user could have drawn a
word not necessary from the document so
let's improve the model the improvement
here is to say that well instead of
drawing a water from the document let's
imagine that
user would actually do a word from a
document model so I show a model here
here we assume that this document is
generated using this unigram model now
this model doesn't necessary assign zero
probability for updating in fact that we
consume this model does not assign zero
probably anything for any word now if
we're thinking this way then the
generation process is a little bit
different now the user has this model in
mind instead of this particular document
although the model has to be estimated
based on the document so the user can
again generate the query using a similar
process namely pick a word for example
presidential and another world campaign
now the difference is that at this time
we can also pick a water mug update even
though updated does not occur in the
document to potentially generate the
query water might update so that a query
with updated would wanna have zero
probabilities so this would fix our
problem and it's also reasonable because
we're now thinking of what the user is
looking for in a more general way that
is a unigram language model instead of a
fixed document so how do we compute this
query like her if we make this a salmon
well it involves two steps right the
first is to compute this model and we
call it talking the language model
for example drive assume two possible
language models here is made based on
two documents and then given a query
like a data mining algorithms the second
step would just compute the likelihood
of this query and by making independence
assumptions we could then have this
probability as a product of the
probability of each clear award right we
do this for both documents and then we
can score these two documents and then
rank them so that's the basic idea of
this query light hold retrieval function
so more generally than this ranking
function would look like the following
right here as we assume that the query
has n words
W 1 throw W N and then the scoring
function the ranking function is
the probability that we observe this
query given that the user is thinking of
this document and this is assuming that
the product of probabilities of all
individual words this is based on the
independence assumption now we actually
often score the document for this query
by using log of the query light code as
shown on the second line now we do this
to avoid having a lot of small
probabilities we multiplied together and
this could cause in the flow and we
might lose precision by transforming the
value is a logarithm function we
maintain the order of these documents
yet we can avoid the underflow problem
so if we take logarithm transformation
of course the product would become a Sun
as soon on second line here so it's a
sum over all the query words and inside
the Sun the value is log of the
probability of this word given by the
document and then we can further rewrite
the Sun into a different form so in the
first the Sun here in this Sun we have
it over all the query words in query
world and in this Sun we have sum over
all the possible words but we put a
counter here of each word in query
essentially we are only considering the
words in the query because if a word is
not in query the comment would be zero
so we are still considering only these n
words but we are using a different form
as if we're going to take a sum over all
the words in the vocabulary and of
course a word might occur multiple times
in the query that's why we have a count
here and then this part is log of the
probability of the world given by the
doc in the language model so you can see
in this material function we
to know the count of the world in the
query so the only thing that we don't
know is this document named model
therefore we have convert through the
retrieval problem into the problem of
estimating this stock in ramage model so
that we can compute the probability of
each query water given by this document
and different estimation methods here
would lead to different ranking
functions now this is just like a
different ways took place talking the
back that in the vector space would lead
to a different ranking function in the
vector space model here different ways
to estimate this spoken language model
would lead to a different ranking
function for query right
you